Over here.
It's Tom!
It's Wiseman!
It's the best in the kingdom.
The Queen Mother Mother.
May you live on for-
There's a man in your kingdom who has the spirit of the Holy Gods.
I'll you the interpretation.
Who is this man?
Daniel.
Who's Daniel?
Are you Daniel?
I am my Lord.
I've heard concerning you that you're able to provide interpretations.
Now, if you're able to read the writing and make its interpretation known to me,
then you will be clothed with purple.
A gold necklace will be placed around your neck.
And you will rule as the third one in the kingdom.
You may keep your gifts.
Give your presence to others.
However, I will read the writing to the King.
The most high God granted to Nebuchadnezzar the kingdom and greatness and honor and majesty.
But when his heart became haughty, he was brought down from the throne of his kingdom.
And his dignity was taken away.
But you.
Nebuchadnezzar, you have not humbled your heart, although you knew all of this.
Instead, you exalted yourself against the Lord of the heavens.
You had them bring you the vessels of his house.
And then you and your nobles, your concubines and secondary wives drank wine from them
and praised the gods of silver and gold, gods who see nothing and hear nothing and know nothing.
But you've not glorified the God and whose hand is your breath and all your ways.
So the hand was sent from him.
This is the interpretation of the words, meaning God has numbered the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end.
Pequel, you have been weighed in the balances and found lacking.
Pearest, your kingdom's been divided and given to the meads and the Persians.
Congrats. This is Daniel, a Jew taken captive by the Babylonians.
Did you interpret the handwriting from the gods?
No. And not me, O King, my God, the God of Israel.
We could use a seetrap who understands the captives.
I confess, a seetrap is not as prominent position as Boshazar granted you.
My Lord, Daniel refused every gift and honor Boshazar offered him.
Bad without a price. We don't need you as a seetrap.
We need you over them. Torah pronounced Daniel's appointment throughout the kingdom.
I want those stealing from the treasury to know that they will now be held accountable.
Daniel, you'll make a fine high official.
Only with Jehovah's help. He is the land taxor.
Another revolt.
This is far more troubling.
I just collected the land tax from an administrator.
Did he pay?
Yes. But he refuses to give us our fees.
I've heard the same problem. They're calling anything more than the tax extortion.
What's changed?
Daniel.
Have you offered him anything to make him more reason up?
He won't take a shackle of silver.
Daniel claims that what he receives is more than enough.
Don't be so naive. He's putting on a shot of integrity for the king.
It won't last. Dress will tire him soon enough.
There seems to be a discrepancy in the taxes to the treasury. My Lord.
You're brave to say that here.
I know it's hard to hear.
We'll review the evidence.
Daniel, your time here has given you much wisdom.
How long have you been here?
Over 70 years.
Share more with me.
Tell me about the dreams you interpreted for Nebuchadnezzar.
Interpretations belong to my God, Jehovah.
He revealed the dreams to me.
Have I really been in Babylon over 70 years?
Jeremiah's prophecy.
When 70 years have been fulfilled,
I'll call to account the king of Babylon and that nation for their error.
What does this mean for God's people?
When 70 years of Babylon are fulfilled, I will turn my attention to you.
And I will make good my promise by bringing you back to this place.
Judah must approach Jehovah to confess the sin of my people.
Oh, Jehovah, you do here, but do forgive.
Oh, Jehovah, do pay attention and act.
Not to lay for your own sake.
Oh, my God.
Oh, Daniel, come to give you insight and understanding.
When you began your intrudey word went out.
I have come to report to you.
Daniel, as they're already entered here.
Hello, Daniel.
It's so good to see you.
Efer, come sit with me.
I have good news.
What's the good news?
Jehovah has long told us we will return to Judah.
I looked again at Jeremiah's prophecy.
This is what Jehovah says.
When 70 years at Babylon are fulfilled,
I will make good my promise
by bringing you back to this place.
70 years.
That means God's people will return soon.
How can you be sure?
Jehovah sent an angel to tell me.
An angel?
He said that the city and its temple will be rebuilt.
And Messiah will finally come.
You will get to see the temple rebuilt.
But won't it be dangerous?
Jehovah is eager to fulfill the needs of his people.
He told Isaiah,
we will bear children for distress.
For there's the offspring made up of those blessed by Jehovah.
And if Jehovah says it...
It says good is done.
But isn't the land desolate?
That's why we all need skilled builders for the restoration work.
Does this mean you'll return to Judah?
I sure hope so.
Have a team of workers maintain the roads.
Otherwise, conditions will only worsen during the rainy season.
Teracy that is done.
How is it that you know so much?
I can't take credit, my Lord.
I just...
We have many great men who provide the information we need, O King.
Daniel, about that seetrap in Susa.
Should he be replaced?
My men have thoroughly investigated.
And the seetrap has been diverting palace money to his own pocket.
That's impossible.
Isn't he your nephew?
What's on us?
Indeed.
And I can vouch for his integrity.
There must be some mistake.
How can Daniel know his character as I do?
I will speak with him and resolve the matter.
We maids and Persians are not as intolerant as these Jews.
I'm sure we can fix this.
Very well.
So, I look quickly, and that will be all.
My Lord, I'm so sorry.
You have guests.
All you Jews do is pray.
I did not serve the King the way I do without God's help.
Serve the King by intimidating seetraps.
I've only done what I should.
An outsider has no place telling us how to conduct business.
I acted in the King's interest.
We've heard how you acted in Nebuchadnezzar's interest.
You made him go insane.
That was a message from Jehovah.
Call it what you will, but do not interfere with us.
If it seemed easy to remove a seetrap,
think of how much easier it will be to get rid of an old Jew.
It's an honor to be with you.
Do you know why someone do?
No, my Lord.
That seetrap, whose dismissal Daniel recommended, was become of him.
Yes, we thoroughly investigated the matter.
Was there negligence?
None.
Any omission of duty?
Not at all.
All taxes do the treasury have come to the treasury?
Every shackle of gold and court of beer are accounted for.
Daniel reached a different conclusion.
My Daniel, he served the Babylonian kings well, but...
He's so old.
What autonomous means is at Daniel's age, how reliable is his judgment?
His ideas are outdated.
Besides, he is a Jew.
We're tolerant of all peoples.
Yes.
Of course, that's my point.
Daniel, we were just talking about you.
You were right.
There's been a revolt in Susa.
They demand a new seetrap.
One who doesn't steal from that.
But, my Lord, surely...
Enough!
I sent my own inspectors.
Men, I trust.
Daniel, you've distinguished yourself over these men.
Imagine what I could do if you were my prime minister.
Perhaps we could approach the king.
That's not use.
Daniel's manipulating him.
We need an accusation against Daniel.
Something to rise can't ignore.
But no one's accused him of anything.
Not yet.
Assemble the team to comb through our laws.
Surely he's violated something.
You interview merchants, inspectors, officials,
where we'll make an accusation against him.
As sure the accuser.
He will be generously rewarded.
Search for any scandal that might implicate him.
There's nothing in the records.
Anything.
Not a shuckle of silver is missing.
In fact, when Daniel gets involved, corruption and loss go down.
Keep searching.
No one will speak against him.
They all love him.
And he has the king's trust.
Usually the foreign merchants are ignored when they experience theft.
However, Daniel stands up for them and investigates.
He has these returned, whatever was stolen.
Even his friends are spotless.
They could never once forbade anyone to speak against their God.
Supposedly, this Jehovah saved them from the furnace
when they refused to worship a Babylonian God.
Jews went worship other gods.
So it would seem to think you've solved our problem.
Katu?
Otanas?
What favor do you seek?
O King Darius may live on forever.
This Babylon of which you are king is mighty but diverse.
There are Babylonians, Egyptians, Greeks, and others.
It is Otanas, I know these things.
You are the rightful king, but also a foreigner and a newcomer.
The people must adapt, or the kingdom could become unstable.
What do you suggest?
All royal officials, prefects, say traps, high royal officers,
and governors have consulted together to establish a royal decree
and to enforce a ban.
For 30 days, whoever makes a petition to any God or man,
except to you, O King, should be thrown into the lion's pit.
The people are not above rebellion.
Look what happened in Susa.
Now, O King, may you establish the decree and sign it
so that it cannot be changed according to the law of the needs and the versions.
Which cannot be annulled.
At this time, our empire experiences peace and prosperity unlike ever seen before.
The recent acts of defiance in Susa, along with similar acts by small groups of radicals,
seek to undermine our way of life.
A way of life, we will sacrifice for nothing.
In honor of the glorious freedom so kindly granted by the empire,
and as a reminder of its sovereignty, I derise the need to make this decree.
For 30 days, anyone who makes a petition to any God or man,
except to the King, should be thrown into the lion's pit.
Pray, are you?
That's right.
You know me, and so do my enemies.
I pray at my window three times a day, every day,
if I even appear to compromise.
What would they think?
That you stop praying altogether.
Or even worse, that I had trained my worship for my life.
I know Jehovah.
And if I trust him, he'll reward me.
I don't know how, but he will.
Pray that I keep my faith.
That we all keep our faith, no matter how this ends.
I have something for you.
Hear me, O Jehovah.
When I cry, show me a favor, and answer me.
Your face, O Jehovah, I will seek to find for you are my helper.
Believe me, my God of salvation.
O King, may you live on forever.
Did you not sign a ban, stating that for 30 days,
any man who makes a petition to any God, or man?
Except to you, O King.
Should be thrown into the lance pit?
Yes, the matters, well established according to the law of the Means and Persians.
What's your business?
Daniel, who is of the Exiles of Judah, has paid no regard to you, O King,
nor to the ban that you signed.
But three times a day, he is praying.
Daniel, you can't be true.
Are you sure?
He doesn't even try to deny it.
Were there witnesses?
All five of us, my Lord, we can't test him.
But he is old.
Does he know what he's doing?
As a high official, surely he understands what it means to obey the King?
Let me be.
Should we arrest?
Leave the matter to me.
Daniel should indeed be made an example of.
I will remove him from his post and expel him from the city tomorrow morning.
My Lord.
All will learn that our laws must be obeyed.
But the law actually states that the accused would be thrown into the lance pit, my Lord.
I see what you're doing.
Have you no shame?
The law of the Means and Persians is that any ban or decree that the King establishes
cannot be changed.
We only wish the King to receive the honor he deserves.
Your God whom you are continually serving will rest in the river.
Remove the stone.
Daniel.
Oh, King, may you live on forever.
Lives.
Bring him up.
My God sent his angel and shut the mouths of the lions.
And they have not harmed me.
For I was found innocent before him, nor have I done any wrong to you.
O King.
Armenia is mine.
Daniel let them off too easily.
We need their exceptional horses for our cavalry.
And a few for myself.
Fine.
You take Armenia.
I have my own bacteria.
And it's precious stones.
Must you divide a Daniel's kingdom now?
The meaning of this.
You're being arrested for crimes against the rice, the King.
The King ordered Daniel's arrest not ours.
Daniel was arrested.
And lifted from the pit this morning.
Unharmed.
They can't be.
The lions must have already been fed.
Perhaps they were ill.
The lions were ill.
Not hungry.
Throw them in their families into the pit.
But they can test their theories.
No!
I'm issuing an order that in every domain of my kingdom,
people are to tremble in fear before the God of Daniel.
For he is the living God and he endures forever.
His kingdom will never be the same.
He rescues, saves, and performs signs and wonders in the heavens and on the earth.
For he rescued Daniel from the paw of the lions.
Do I answer with that?
He's sending it to all of his subjects.
You were so worried.
Were you scared?
I was very scared.
But Joel, that helps us when we're scared.
They're scared of going to Jerusalem.
You for it.
We're still thinking about it.
About you.
Are you going back?
The King says we're all out to go.
I'd love to go home.
I think it's too late for me.
No, I'm going to go either.
Home, no, no, don't cry.
If you'll go, you'll see a better city than the one I left.
You'll see prophecies fulfilled.
A city full of people worshiping Joel, but new temple.
The most beautiful building on earth.
Stay, don't be blessed.
That I might dwell in the house of Joel over all the days of my life.
To gaze, to look, to the appreciation.
It's tough.
Daniel, you need to rest.
Oh, Daniel, you very precious man.
I have been sent to you.
Do not be afraid, Daniel.
Your words have been heard from the first day you gave your heart to understanding
and humbling yourself before your God.
I have come to make you understand what will befall your people in the final part of the days.
I have no strength.
There's a breath left in me.
Do not be afraid of very precious man.
May you have peace.
Be strong.
That by Lord speak, for you have strengthened me.
I will tell you that things recorded in the writings of truth.
Look, three more kings will stand up for Persia.
And the fourth one will have mass greater riches than one.
Oh my Lord, what will be the outcome of these things?
Happy is the one who keeps an expectation.
Go on to the end.
You will rest, but you will stand up for your lot at the end of the days.
If we eat those foods, we'll disobey our God.
You fear your God?
I do.
Interpretations belong to my God, Jehovah.
I know that He will reveal it to me.
Jehovah is eager to fulfill the needs of His people.
And if I trust Him, they reward me.